# Workshop Week 8 - Text Analytics

In this Workshop you will practice with the use of Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio and SAS Enterprise Miner for text analytics.

## 1. Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio for Text Analytics

Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio offers a range of tools for text analytics. These are demonstrated in the following webpage.

* [Text Analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/studio-module-reference/text-analytics)

### 1.1 News Categorisation

This tutorial from the Azure AI Gallery shows a simple text analytics process to classify news into categories. Open the project in Studio, run it, and examine the results. Make sure that you understand all of the components.

* [Multiclass Classification: News categorization](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/fcb1bf27ee26443fb19bd07852a620c4)

Answer the following questions:

1. What does each "Join Data" cell do? Why do you think we need to do that?
2. What do the "Feature Hashing" cells do?
3. What are the classification results on the training data? and on the test data? What can you conclude from this?

### 1.2 Find Similar Companies

This tutorial from the Azure AI Gallery uses clustering to find similar companies. Open the project in Studio, run it, and examine the results. Make sure that you understand all of the components.

* [Clustering: Find similar companies](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/60cf8e46935c4fafbf86f669121a24f0)

Answer the following questions:

1. What criteria were used to determine the similarity between two documents?
2. The result creates three clusters. Examine the clusters. Can you determine what category each cluster represents?

### 1.3 (Optional) Sentiment Analysis

If you have not done so, follow this series of tutorials on text classification for sentiment analysis. They show a series of steps to conduct text classification, starting from the preprocessing of data, and finishing with the evaluation of the results and deployment as a web service. This is the set of optional exercises from the workshops of week 7.

* [Text classification](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/f43e79f47d8a4219bf8613d271ea2c45)


## 2. SAS Enterprise Miner for Text Analytics

SAS Enterprise Miner is included in the on-line set of resources of SAS OnDemand for Academics. To access SAS Enterprise Miner, first create your account for SAS OnDemand for Academics. To register, visit https://odamid.oda.sas.com and click on Register for an account.

After you have successfully created your account, follow these steps:

1.    Sign on the the Control Center at https://odamid.oda.sas.com.
2.    Look for the Enroll in a course link in the "Enrollments** section near the bottom of the page. Click this link to start the enrollment.
3.    Enter the course code: 3d547ada-7990-448c-9dcd-b1469c4fd825
4.    Submit the form.
5.    Confirm that this is the correct course and then click the button to finish enrolling.

For more information about SAS OnDemand for Academics, including step-by-step registration instructions, visit the following site: http://support.sas.com/ondemand.

SAS Enterprise Miner is a Java application which may need to be configured. The PC labs are already configured but **you will still need to download SAS Enterprise Miner every time you wish to use it**. To download SAS Enterprise Miner, and to obtain instructions to configure your personal computer to run it, use the SAS OnDemand for Academics control center after you have logged on SAS OnDemand for Academics.

* [SAS OnDemand for Academics](https://odamid.oda.sas.com)
* [SAS OnDemand for Academics Control Center](https://odamid.oda.sas.com/SASODAControlCenter/)

### 2.1 The Weather-Animals-Sports data

Chapter 1 of the report "Text Analytics Using SAS Text Miner" describes how to use SAS Text Miner to filter and cluster documents. Read pages 1 to 21 of chapter 1 for a brief introduction to Text Analytics with SAS Text Miner, and then follow the instructions from pages 21 to 42. You can download the data through the following two links:

* [WeatherAnimalsSports.csv](WeatherAnimalsSports.csv)
* [Score_WeatherAnimalSports.csv](Score_WeatherAnimalSports.csv)


Answer the following questions:

1. What documents contain the word "lions?" What documents contain the word "lions"? What documents contain the word "lion" or "lions"? (page 28).
2. What were the clustering errors after applying TextCluster with SVD? (page 33)
3. What were the clustering errors after applying topic modelling? (page 35)
4. What did you do to correct the errors? (page 40)
5. What was the performance of the system when you tried with new data? (page 42)
